Summary
The stock of NIO fell to a 52-week low on Friday.
Even the much-touted NIO Day failed to pique the stock's interest.
Stocks with a high number of components are at risk of falling in value.
The risk of ADR share delisting is still woefully underplayed.
NIO logo and the Nio"s user center, NIO House
Andy Feng/iStock Editorial via Getty Images

On Saturday, management executives and company staff from electric-vehicle manufacturer NIO, Inc. (NYSE:NIO) held their annual NIO Day in Suzhou, where they unveiled NIO's newest electric-vehicle, the ET5. Despite the fact that NIO stock hit a 52-week low last week, many investors are still unaware of the risks. As the CCP seeks to renegotiate its relationship with the business sector, an ADR share delisting is a distinct possibility in 2022.

NIO Day
NIO Day is a significant event for the electric-vehicle manufacturer, as well as a significant marketing opportunity. NIO Day is an annual event at which the company touts its growth plans, announces new investments, and showcases new products. The most significant announcement on NIO Day, among other things, was the introduction of the company's newest electric-vehicle, the ET5.

The NIO ET5 electric saloon is a smaller version of the ET7 that will be available in China next year. The ET5 is a mid-size electric sedan equipped with NIO's latest Autonomous Driving system. The range of the ET5 saloon is determined by the battery package chosen by the customer, with options ranging from a 75 kWh battery with a range of 550 km to a 100 kWh battery with a theoretical range of 700 km, to a top-of-the-line 150 kWh battery with a range of 1,000 km on a single full charge. The ET5 will cost RMB 328,000 before subsidies (US$51,500) and will be delivered in September 2022, if all goes as planned. The retail price, including NIO's BaaS subsidies, will be RMB 258,000 (US$40,500).

Despite the fact that NIO Day is a well-publicized event, it did not entice many buyers of NIO stock last week. Investors have begun to exit high-multiple stocks in recent months, and NIO is feeling the effects: As investors continue to take profits, the stock closed at $30 on Friday, a new 52-week low. Since reaching a new high in July, NIO's stock price has dropped by 55%, and the correction may not be over.

NIO - Share Price

Source: Finviz

In Terms Of Delivery Growth, NIO Has Begun To Lag Behind Its Peers
So far, 2021 has not been a great year for NIO. Aside from having its stock price cut by more than half since July, the company has begun to lag behind its EV competition in terms of absolute number of deliveries and growth. The performance difference between NIO and Xpeng (XPEV) is especially noticeable. Despite the fact that NIO's delivery growth snapped back in November and the company delivered more than 10,000 units, Xpeng is doing far better than NIO. In November, Xpeng delivered over 15,000 electric-vehicles, outperforming NIO by a wide margin. NIO has dropped to third place in terms of delivering unit growth.

NIO - Nov Deliveries of China

Source: Gasgoo

The Risk Of ADR Delisting Could Define 2022
The possibility of ADR delisting still exists. The Chinese EV industry has so far avoided the kind of crushing regulation that the CCP imposed on tech monopolies this year, but the party has made it clear that it does not favor foreign stock listings of Chinese companies. The CCP officially forced DiDi Global (DIDI) to withdraw from the New York Stock Exchange in November due to data security concerns. In reality, the CCP is renegotiating its relationship with the private sector and tightening its grip.

More ADR share delistings are possible in 2022, and yes, I believe that delisting of ADR shares of electric-vehicle companies listed in the United States is likely. The CCP does not like Chinese companies raising funds outside of China, and the CCP's 'stick and carrot' approach to imposing its will strongly suggests that Chinese companies should do as they are told. Who do you think will yield if the CCP calls and requests that NIO delist its ADR shares? Exactly…

Taiwan Tensions
China has stated numerous times that it considers Taiwan to be its territory. Taiwan asserts its sovereignty. If the conflict between these two countries escalates, China may invade Taiwan, which would dramatically escalate geopolitical tensions and not be an event that investors would like to see. While this is unlikely to make headlines in the near term, it is a risk that investors in US-listed ADR shares should be aware of.

Overpriced Sales Growth
Despite the fact that NIO's stock has returned to the $30 range and the sales multiple has been cut in half since July, NIO's growth may still be overvalued. The market is currently forecasting a 72% increase in sales for 2022, with total revenues of RMB 61.7 billion (US$9.7 billion). This equates to a sales multiple (forward) of approximately five. While NIO's sales are undoubtedly increasing, the risks to that growth have increased significantly this year. With the DiDi Global precedent implying that NIO's ADR share delisting risk is very real, even a 50% lower sales multiple overvalues the company's revenue prospects.

NIO - Revenue Estimates

Source: Yahoo Finance

My Conclusion
Hope may not be an effective investment strategy. The CCP is playing hardball, and there is no guarantee that China's ruling party will not ask NIO and other Chinese companies to delist their ADR shares. There is no guarantee, and a delisting could occur at any time. NIO is also struggling in terms of delivery growth in comparison to peers, and investors' shift away from high-multiple growth stocks is exacerbating the situation. Regardless of how low NIO's sales multiple falls, the risk is simply not worth it, and the NIO rally is likely over.