Nio Stock in Spotlight After Guangzhou-based GAC Group Likely to Invest $150 Million in 2020
Published on January 22, 2020

Michael Spencer
Michael Spencer
Indie Writer #1 Machine Learning Newsletter AiSupremacy | Tap the 🔔 on my profile
1,508 articles
With Tesla's stock sky high, the "Tesla of China" Nio is also benefiting from the news. I think it's somewhat probable Guangzhou-based GAC Group invests $150 million in Nio, while talks are still preliminary in early 2020. The previously reported $1 billion amount is a bit crazy.

You see GAC is a state-owned automaker and China cannot afford to let Nio fail with Tesla's emergence in China and the bright future ahead in China with the EV market, that's still just in its nascent phase.

Nio's stock reached a recent low of $1.32 in October, 2019 and as of January 22nd, 2020 it's now at $4.87 as of noon today which would break a 7 day winning streak for the EV growth stock. It's expected to be among the most volatile and highly traded stocks of January, 2020.

While EV stocks these days defy gravity and present earnings, the entire stock-market is not behaving normally so far in the last 3 months. Nio has a cash problem that's pretty serious and is among the most risky stocks out there today.

However, some analysts even see Nio having a path back up to over $10.00 to reach former highs. It was as high as $10.16 in March, 2019.

The fact is I like how word-of-mouth marketing works in the Nio ecosystem. Nio's brand reputation among its fan base is a bit comparable to Peloton. Nio's marketing spend has been crazy high, but that's somewhat sustainable ahead of the expected demand in the EV sector in the next several years. Brand awareness among its user community may lead to accelerated growth ahead.

Some believe that Nio’s losses may shrink after the 35% climb in electric vehicle delivery volumes it reported for Q3 as well as cost-cutting measures it's been putting into practice over the course of the last few months. It urgently needs investment and cash to be fully functional for the rest of 2020.

Nio's brick-and-mortar presence is a unique part of its marketing play. In 2019, Nio said it opened 48 Spaces and 22 Houses in 52 cities. The company needs a growing physical presence to let potential customers explore Nio’s ES6 and ES8 EVs. What does this result in?

Nearly half, or 45%, of new orders, were due to referrals from existing users. This kind of word-of-mouth marketing works in China since Nio is a luxury EV brand. It's like a club, and it's used this approach to target its target audience with glamour, community and a distinctive brand flavor. I believe China can clone companies with strategy and nearly unlimited support by the State (if necessary).

Like Luckin or Didi, Nio is in a special class of Chinese startup. It's for me the can't miss kind.
But let's face it, in an era of WeWork and others, Nio burned through cash psychopathically in 2019. As of Sept. 30, the company had just $274.3 million remaining, down from $1.123 billion on March 31.

However, there's still room for optimism here. The company minimized costs by having over 1,300 user volunteers at Nio House, Space and at related auto shows. And in 2019, Nio said it opened 48 Spaces and 22 Houses in 52 cities. The company needs a growing physical presence to let potential customers explore Nio’s ES6 and ES8 EVs.

The optimism is also from announcements made on Nio Day. On NIO day, the company announced a 100 Kilowatt battery pack and a 20 kilowatt DC Power Home.
The company also announced the EC6, which adds the third product to its line-up. This model is a Coupe SUV.
NIO stock has an average price target of $6.88 (per tipranks). Bullishness is on the rise for the EV sector in 2020 totally with Tesla sentiment driving new market conditions.
Nio’s nearly three-fold return rewarded investors who bought the stock at the absolute bottom. Considering its recent run correlating with Tesla's mad run, there appears still some room on the upside as of late January.
But for the rest of 2020, the stock may climb higher as the wall of worry ends. By 2021, Nio will need (could) to start reporting a break-even quarter. That's unlikely to happen without further investors and more cash.

Bottom line, Nio is highly unlikely to go bankrupt, because China has invested too much in cloning Tesla to let that happen. This means Nio even at $6.00 is likely a decent growth stock for a long-term play to snag a niche in the future EV luxury market.

The most recent high for Nio's stock is $5.17 on January 21st, 2020. This was after a long streak of gaining value every day for a week. As of 1pm EST it is down 5% today, but I would not be surprised for it to break even for the day or even go up and continue the growth streak.